I work as a street cleaner;
either that or I do some other kind of work,
like decorating
or system administration.
On April 20, they came to search
the home of my wife and me.
I was interrogated.
And after a month, a court ruled
to put me in pretrial detention.
When they lead me out of the courtroom
in handcuffs . . .
. . . and put me into the vehicle,
Yelena (my wife) was at the exit.
From her words, I could sense
that she felt as though she was losing me.
They took me to the detention center
in the city of Ivanovo.
They moved me from cell to cell.
And then they put me
into what is known as the pressure cell.
They told me I had to admit my guilt
and tell them about my fellow worshippers
—give them names, addresses,
what they do, etcetera.
For me, that would mean
losing my loyalty to God.
And the second thing was that it involved
my loyalty to my fellow worshippers.
In essence, it was about showing love.
I said that for me,
loyalty to Jehovah is above everything else,
so whatever happens,
I will remain loyal to God.
I told them openly, directly.
They pressured me physically and emotionally
for several months.
They brought me a Bible
from the detention center’s library.
Thanks to fervent prayers,
I felt how Jehovah gave me
internal peace and calm.
It proves that Jehovah doesn’t just exist,
but he thinks about us; he cares for us.
Jehovah supported me
through a letter from my dear wife.
In it was the thought
that trusting in Jehovah
means seeing things the way he sees them.
The prisoners who put pressure on me
also expressed interest in spiritual things
and started asking questions
relating to my beliefs.
Someone told me
that if I am really a believer,
I should have objects to prove it,
such as a cross, which all believers wear.
I told him that I could show him
the Bible’s viewpoint.
From what I read,
he made his own conclusions.
And after some time,
this prisoner came up to me and showed me
that he wasn’t wearing a cross anymore.
When you are in prison,
the ministry isn’t just about opportunities
to tell people
about the truth from the Bible.
It is more about Jehovah using it
to help you keep a positive outlook
and maintain joy.
The more we concentrate
on what we had before,
the more we suffer.
The quicker we accept the new circumstances,
the quicker our joy returns to us
along with the opportunity to make good use
of the new circumstances.
The appeal instance court
ruled to release me.
It was, of course,
quite an unexpected decision.
At the exit, my dear wife
and other fellow worshippers
(brothers and sisters)
not just from my hometown
but from other cities too met me.
Yelena and I thought it would be good
to collect some essentials,
so we bought some things
and went to the detention center.
And afterward, one of the prisoners
wrote me a letter of thanks:
“I heard how everyone came to meet you.
“I tried to imagine how cool it is
“to be loved, valued, and missed.
“For some,
there’s not enough of that in life.
Take care of yourself, Dima!”
The letters from my wife
were such a big support for me at that time.
To be honest, I saw her letters
as if it were Jehovah using her
to speak to me.
“Nobody loves us as strongly as God.
“You can’t right now feel my love
to the full extent
“or the love of your family and friends.
“But the main thing is
that you are in God’s hands,
“and that is what’s more important.
“He loves you in a special way right now
“and very gently looks after you
and cares for your feelings.
“By trusting in God,
“we can get a feeling of security,
stability, and calmness.
“Our connection with God
must be unbreakable.
“If our strength is in God,
“then we will overcome everything.
“Our suffering is just temporary,
and God will richly reward
all who are loyal to him.”